Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
In the middle of the 19th century
the Brest Fortress was built
at the confluence
of the Bug and Mukhavets rivers.
It was a system of forts and bastions
to make the citadel impregnable.
The defences became obsolete.
but the defenders remained stoical.
20 years after the war. the truth
was revealed in a book by Sergei Smirnov.
On May 8. 1965 it was awarded
the title of Hero Fortress.
IN HONOUR OF THE HEROES
OF THE BREST FORTRESS
AND ALL THOSE WHO HAVE
DEFENDED THE MOTHERLAND.
JUNE 21. 1941. BREST. CITY PARK
I remember. I remember everything.
There was dancing on Saturday
in the city park. just as there always was.
This was me - Alexander Akimov.
a pupil of the 333rd
regiment's military band.
My parents died in Spain in '37.
There was just me
and my brother left.
And this was Anya. simply Anya.
Although. to me.
she could never be "just" Anya.
Wait a moment. I'll be right back.
Sashka. why aren't you
in the barracks?
Oska asked me. The entire band was sent
away. The last trumpeter left on Wednesday.
- Private Akimov of the military band.
- Sir.
Return to the fortress immediately.
Why are you shouting at me?
You are not my captain. not my father.
Tell Sergeant Kovalenok to punish you
as he sees fit. I will check.
And try not to play like that.
About. march.
And he calls himself my brother.
Family of the military
officer — get ready!
Anya. come here.
What sort of a circus is this?
- Stay still.
- Quiet. Stand still.
- Still.
- It's easier being in charge of a regiment.
This was my home. My fortress.
It was rather big.
It was impossible to clamber all over it.
but there were places I knew
where. if I wanted to hide.
nobody would be able to find me.
Thank you.
BREST. THE RAILWAY STATION
Passengers. please keep order
and stay calm.
Don't congregate
next to the ticket booths.
Please leave!
There are no tickets available
for the next trains.
for today! No tickets available!
I said that there are no tickets.
not even for army reservations.
- There aren't any for anybody.
- I am telling you in plain Russian.
I have 3 days to get there
and back.
Let them give you tickets.
We haven't got any.
Not even on pain of death.
I have family in Daugvapils. I have
to bring them to where I am serving.
July 20th.
That's the earliest that I have.
Cancel the reservation.
I am telling you as a friend - I am
forbidden to touch the reservation.
I received an army directive. I can
only act according to specific orders.
- You can't do anything.
- Perhaps it's for the best.
Everyone is leaving this place!
What exactly do you mean by that?
It's so hot. like the Sahara.
What a day!
I feel like lying down and dying.
The German special train.
Hello. Comrade Commissar.
- Hi there. Nikolai. Are you bringing a movie?
- Yeah.
Hup. Hup! Faster!
Tugushev.
Kolya is fast.
But Tugushev is even faster.
There will not be a war.
- Checkmate.
- A tragic mistake.
- One more. come on.
- Commissar.
You didn't leave.
Comrade Regiment Commissar?
As if I could leave you.
What sort of a final game
would that be?
Attention.
Look to the right.
- Did you bring the film?
- Yes.
- And beer.
- Maybe without beer would be better.
- Shur. tomorrow is Sunday.
- On Sunday people want to relax.
So I will relax then.
Three beers.
- Alik. Nina.
- You didn't say that. You didn't.
- And sodas for the kids.
- At least you remembered about them.
Have we forgotten anything?
- Thanks. Sonya.
- Let's go. soldiers.
- Did you bring it?
- Yes. I did.
- Probably about love again?
- Yes. it's about love.
It seems I have been caught out.
Comrade Sergeant.
What?
Do you want a belting or what?
Where on earth did he find you?
I played a wrong note.
and you know my brother.
What did you play?
"The Hills of Manchuria."
Make sure you learn it.
You'll play it on parade.
Stop the music.
- Khrusch. what are you doing?
- Lieutenant. it's like "Swan Lake"...
- Good morning.
So. when will the war with Germany
start. in your opinion?
It's like that. is it?
I have to carry out
an investigation into your case
concerning the scaremongering
rumours about a war with our ally.
I believe that you are a committed
Communist. An honest man.
Why are you being called
a scaremonger. Pyotr Mikhailovich?
You should ask whoever it was
who appointed me.
Help me. Pyotr Mikhailovich. I don't
have a high rank. or much authority.
You can see how much I have to do.
I can see that it's not your fault.
Who is spreading panic?
What do you think?
I asked you here
so we could be on friendly terms.
- Who is it. Comrade Major?
- It was me.
I let it slip a few times that
the Germans would soon be upon us.
I haven't heard anything like this
from anyone else.
There is no panic in the garrison.
Comrade Vainstein.
You don't have to worry about that.
Just look. Lieutenant.
If they do come.
we will be caught in a bottleneck.
The garrison is 8.000 strong.
A crowd of this size will not make it
out of the Northern Gate alone.
all with their mothers and children.
with their curtains. tablecloths. napkins.
It's no better than a lousy sanatorium.
Most of the garrison should be moved
to the vicinity of the troops.
That is what I have said for the past
two wars. and I am saying it again.
And the entire 4th Army?
Pyotr Mikhailovich.
they won't leave us in it?
They won't.
They won't. if everybody is
where they should be.
The soldiers are in one place.
and the officers in another.
Soldiers with no officers
will cause panic.
It's that simple. Comrade Lieutenant.
I understand. Pyotr Mikhailovich.
And I think that our conversation
has been very useful.
I am asking you to keep this secret.
The hearing for your case
will be on the 27th.
May I leave. Comrade Lieutenant?
There is a film show at the club.
Yes.
So. Sonya... Sonya.
Will you stay?
Look at the way people are living.
Anyuta. I've been wanting to tell you
for a long time...
Thank you. Comrade Major.
- The tea's gone cold.
- Go to sleep. Katyusha.
German saboteurs had infiltrated
Brest wearing our uniforms.
They were responsible for cutting off
the fortress's water and light.
What's the matter?
Another Polish deserter
was caught at the post.
He said the war
will begin tonight at 4.00.
- Do you believe him?
- Of course not.
We have caught 10 like him.
and each of them says today.
on the 8th of August.
I am upset because of Anya.
The girl has grown up.
She used to tell me everything.
and now I'm lucky
if I get a word out of her.
Perhaps she is ill?
Sashka Akimov — that's the name of
the ailment. Our Anya is in love.
So there you are. Daddy.
Sasha. Remember you promised
to take me fishing?
- Anya. your parents won't let you go.
- I'll sneak out at night.
All right... Anya. you keep playing.
and I'm off for a smoke.
- Let's get married.
- I don't remember you asking me.
You don't think I will?
- I'll be right back.
- Wait.
Just wait a minute.
- Hello.
- Name?
Nikolai. I've brought the film.
JUNE 22. 1941
03.58
A drill? They won't let us sleep.
What is it?
I'll go and see what's happening.
Get down!
- What is it?
- A drill.
- Run!
- Where?
- Home. I'll find you.
- What about you?
- Where's Anya?
- Calm down. we'll find her.
Is it war?
- Katya! Quickly.
- Did you take everything?
Run.
Katya. do what I taught you.
Hide in the furthest cellar.
Take it easy!
- Come on. son.
- Your cap.
I'll come and get you as soon as
everything quietens down.
She'll be able to find us.
won't she?
Stay here.
- And you?
- I'll be fine.
I am going to regimental
headquarters. Run. Run!
Take her away.
Let's go! Come on. get going!
I had imagined what war
would be like.
But I hadn't imagined
anything like this.
Everybody had been waiting for it.
but nobody expected it so suddenly.
Ordinary and terrible.
I ran to that house. It was
an assembly point in the event of war.
That's what was written
in the roster.
But it was there. in a building
that had already been destroyed.
Stop! No weapons without orders
from the officers!
Hurry up!
I didn't get a weapon.
But I had my own weapon.
And no permission
was required for that.
Everything seems
to have gone quiet.
Son. crawl into the cellar.
Run. Run. son.
You can't come in here.
You can't come in here!
THE FORTRESS. THE VOLYN
FORTIFICATION. HOSPITAL
Where are you going?
THE VOLYN FORTIFICATION.
NORTHERN GATE
Stop panicking.
THE VOLYN FORTIFICATION.
EASTERN FORT
Get back. I said!
Go back to the barracks!
Stop panicking. Go back
to the barracks. Go back.
Boy. play.
It doesn't matter what. just play.
Stop! Stop!
Have you gone mad? Get out of here!
- Where are the weapons?
- Get lost!
Officers. come here!
We're here.
We are lieutenants.
Lieutenants... I don't see it!
Pull yourselves together and report.
or I will have you shot for scaremongering.
Yes. sir.
Back to the barracks! Get your weapons
and take up your positions!
- Run! Quick march!
- Follow me. quickly.
THE FORTRESS.
THE KHOLMSKY GATE
Where are our men?
I can only hear Germans.
- We were trained for this.
- What were we trained for?
- What?!
- As you were!
It's my fault.
Comrade Regiment Commissar.
Stop panicking.
Is the regimental captain
in the fortress?
I am taking command. Sergeant.
assemble the troops and weapons.
Man all the windows.
Don't let the Germans cross
the bridge. Save the ammo.
Don't stop trying to get
a radio link.
Yes. sir.
Fortress here. Fortress here.
Border guards. wait for my command.
Ready your weapons!
We don't have enough!
They're buried in the rubble.
- The Political Commissar?
- Dead!
Everybody who has a weapon
come with me. The rest of you....
See what you can get
out of the rubble.
Germans!
Regiment.
Get fighting.
Follow me!
Fortress here. We are defending our
position. We are engaged in fighting.
Waiting for reinforcements.
THE BARRACKS
OF THE 13TH NKVD BATALLION
What sort of unit is this?
Who is in charge?
Bring the officer to me.
Bring the officer in charge to me!
NKVD Lieutenant Vainstein.
As your senior officer
I order you to leave the barracks.
split up into small groups and make
your way out towards safer areas!
Comrade Major. permission to speak.
If we leave. they will break in.
We can hold them off until help arrives.
- Germans!
- Start fighting!
On the right and on the left!
Carry out the order. Lieutenant!
Two regiments have already
moved from Korbin to help.
It makes no sense
to sacrifice people.
- And you. Sergeant!
- Staff Sergeant Novikov.
You know what happens to soldiers
who disobey orders?
Comrade Major. I'm sorry.
I don't know you.
- May I see your documents?
- Yes. yes. of course.
That's right.
I commend you on your vigilance.
- And the boots. please.
- What about the boots?
Show me your boots. Our nails are
round. the German ones are square.
- Novikov.
- Sir.
Look.
Square!
Stop! Stop!
- The tag is German.
- But the nails were round.
Sonya!
- Kolya.
- Sonya!
Kolya! Kolya...
- Kolya. I'm here!
- I'll be right there!
Sonya...
- Kolya! Kolechka. Kolya...
- Quiet. quiet. Please be quiet.
Kolya. I can't go on like this.
Kolya. I'm so afraid.
Quiet.
- There are Germans. there are Germans.
- Please. I beg you!
Quiet. quiet. It's me. Don't cry.
You're strong. I know.
Fortress calling. We are engaged
in fighting. defending our position.
in fighting. waiting for reinforcements.
Comrade. Comrade Commissar. look.
It's our men from the hospital.
There. there. Look.
That's the nurse who treated my ear.
What will we do.
Comrade Commissar?
Sergeant. come with me.
Leave your weapon.
Everybody man the windows. Aim at
the convoy at chest level. Follow me.
They've found the right people
to hide behind.
Get down!
Comrade Commissar!
Everybody into the cellar!
We need to get to Brest. Find out
what the situation is like there.
Do you understand your mission?
- Yes. Comrade Regiment Commissar.
- Then get to work.
- Look at how many have been killed.
- Stop! Stop!
Ammunition.
- Come here.
- Do you have any ammo?
What are you talking about?!
Get in!
Let's go to the gate.
to the Northern Gate!
THE KOBRIN FORTIFICATION.
THE COMMAND CENTRE
I was looking for my brother.
We lived here.
Our family
and the Pochernikov family.
- Uncle Vanya!
- Go and crawl to the window.
Have you seen my brother?
Here. Help me.
Shura. no! Come here.
- Sashka. run.
- No.
I'm ordering you.
What will we do. Vanya?
I won't be taken prisoner.
I'm going with you.
I understand everything.
I don't want to live without you
and the children. I can't.
Shura...
Forgive me.
No. you forgive me.
What are they doing there?
Let's go back.
We can't get through here.
Fortress calling. fortress calling.
Watch where you're going!
We can't get through.
Comrade Regimental Commissar.
Waiting for reinforcements.
Fortress calling. fortress calling.
Comrade Major!
Comrade Major. Tanks!
- Calm down. Lieutenant.
- If we had at least a single weapon!
I told them so. I told them.
- We could use some anti-tank guns.
- Get ready to fight!
Prepare the grenades.
Get the weapons.
Take up your positions!
Wait for the order to fire.
Just wait till I'm done.
I'll get you. You have no place to hide.
Who fired?
Fire!
- Ours.
- Load!
Aim!
Fire!
Take cover!
- Kovtun. grenades.
- Sir.
Attack! Forward!
Hurrah!
- What's your name. son?
- Lieutenant Akimov.
That's how my brother died.
on the first day of fighting.
The first order to retreat was
issued by the German command
on June @2 1941
.
at 1 1 o'clock in the morning
here in the Brest Fortress.
We have 18 left
capable of bearing arms.
There is no medicine. water or food.
What do you think? Where are
our reinforcements? Are they coming?
Will they be here soon?
What should I tell the soldiers?
They will be here by morning.
for certain. For certain.
- Well? Have they all been buried?
- Yes.
- What about the water?
- There's an icebox in the cellar.
- Enough for one day.
- And then?
Comrade Major. tomorrow our lads
will chase them off.
It's dangerous to stay here.
The building has been badly damaged.
Follow me. Take cover in the barracks
cellar until reinforcements arrive.
- Where is Anya?
- I thought she was with you.
I have to go.
I didn't know what was happening.
I didn't know what to do
or where to go.
All I knew was that I had to survive
until morning.
In the morning our men would arrive
and it would all be over.
Soldiers. officers!
You are faced with a choice:
die in a hail of bullets.
or have the bravery
to surrender and live.
Your situation is hopeless.
Your fight is hopeless.
We have come to free your country
from Yids and Bolsheviks.
We will create a new life
without any back-breaking work.
Surrender and you will live.
Let me shoot them.
No. don't. Everyone has
his own choice.
Here. give me your hand!
Comrade Lieutenant.
please let me report.
Akimov Alexander.
333rd military band regiment.
- Take him to the cellar.
- Comrade Lieutenant. where is Anya?
- What?
- Anya?
I saw her running towards you.
- Put him in the cellar. Quickly.
- Let me go!
- Stop! Where are you going?
- I'll find her!
Akimov! Sashka!
I'll find her!
Don't! No! No. no. no!
Stop! Please!
No! Don't shoot!
Don't kill me. please...
Don't! Please!
- Drag him over here.
- Report to Fomin.
- Quickly. Quickly. quickly!
- Quiet. boys.
- Commissar. we've got a captive!
- Nurses. come here!
I remember Fomin and Zubachev.
Their small division
at the Kholmsky Gate.
They didn't let the enemy
over the bridge.
I saw a captive German
for the first time here.
Maslov! What is he saying?
He says:
"More than likely to take Minsk."
He says: "You're in the rear.
right at the rear."
Why are you talking about Minsk?
What did you come here for?!
Why did you come here?
You're lying.
Comrade. Comrade Commissar. look!
Our men.
Behind you! Behind you!
Alive? Well done.
Come on. come on.
Lieutenant Karelin.
- 123rd fighting regiment.
- Regiment Commissar Fomin.
Tell me.
what's happening in Brest. Kurbin?
Why is our air force doing nothing?
Where are our men?
There are no aerodromes.
Comrade Commissar.
They have all been destroyed.
There are Germans in Brest.
Our troops are retreating to Minsk.
Comrades.
Soldiers.
The Germans are asking us
to surrender.
They are offering us
a cowardly life in captivity.
They are making a mistake.
We are Red Army soldiers
and we will protect our motherland
to our dying breath.
That is the only choice for us.
JUNE 24th.
- Uncle. may I have a drop of water?
- There isn't any. my dear.
There is. Please give it to me.
- Kostya. where is your family?
- I don't know.
I left them at home. in the cellar.
Now. I don't know.
I don't know what's happened
to mine either.
You can't drink that.
It's petrol.
I remember that morning. or day.
I woke up and saw hands.
Kovalenok's hands. He was carving
a whistle out of wood for me.
I looked at it and thought.
what do I need it for?
Let's regroup and try to break out.
Nobody will be looking for us here.
Tonight. or we will lose everyone.
We need to get out right away.
- One by one.
- Where are we going to break out to?
The fortress is surrounded. Brest has
been taken. To captivity? To a camp?
- Where? To death?
- We are dead. Comrade Officer.
Yes. Many will die.
Possibly everyone.
We should fight while we have strength.
We need to break out.
- Write an order.
- Number?
Order number 1.
June 24. 1941. Fortress.
The situation in the fortress
requires us to leave immediately.
Cross out "us to leave immediately".
Write "organised military action.
for further engagement with the enemy."
Officers. Division Commissar Fomin.
Captain Zubachev.
Lieutenant Vinogradov.
The decision was made
to unite the remaining forces
into a composite group.
The unified force.
tonight. on June 24th.
will try to break out...
to break out...
to unite with the Red Army regulars.
The Red Army...
To continue the fight against
the fascist invaders.
- Again! God damn it!
- Germans on the bridge!
- Places. everyone!
- Take your positions!
Fortress calling.
We are engaged in fighting.
Defending our position.
waiting for reinforcements.
Valenko! Come!
Judging by the shooting around
the Tirespol Gate and the Eastern Fort.
our men are still fighting there.
Follow me.
Try to break through
to them at any cost.
Report the current situation and
tell them of our plans to break out.
Try to get there before the breakout
and come back here. Alive!
- Comrade Commissar. may I go?
- Permission denied.
- Drink some water. That's all I have.
- Give it to the wounded.
- Do it.
- Sir!
Take it to the wounded
in the cellar. Do it!
Sir!
OK. OK. I got it.
Take a look. Calm down.
Everything is OK.
Finish on your own.
Doctor.
On Saturday they delivered cold
mineral water to the exchange post.
Into the cellars!
I didn't make it.
I didn't make it. Sashka.
Go to the Eastern Fort.
Our men are there. Give the order.
- The breakout is tonight.
- I'll tell them.
I knew that nothing would happen
to me. because I...
I was destined
to deliver this order.
Anya.
There's no way out of here
at the moment. Stay here.
I'm afraid I can't stay with you. though.
I have an order to deliver.
Are you listening to me?
Do you hear me?
There was no water.
Or. to be more accurate. there was
but we couldn't get to it.
All approaches
to the river bank were under fire.
People died for just
a pot of water. for a mouthful.
And the little that they did bring.
they kept for the machine guns.
Comrade Major. permission to report.
Akimov. 333rd military band regiment.
I have an order. Tonight
there will be a mass breakout.
The signal will be a red flare.
I am lucky... with Akimovs.
It's time.
Follow me.
Let's go.
Forward.
Follow me!
Save the ammo!
Let's go. Let's go.
- Tereshenko. what's wrong?
- It's my shoulder!
- Pelechenko. help him.
- Sir.
- Give me your hand.
- I can do it!
Everybody withdraw!
Withdraw!
Retreat!
We're retreating!
Comrade Doctor.
I did everything I could.
Have pity on yourself and
your family. Pity your children.
Feel pity for your children.
Do something. Commander.
Anya!
- I'm not going anywhere.
- I'm not asking. Katya.
You can't order me.
- I am not going.
- Then nobody will go.
But you're my wife.
The officer's wife.
They'll follow you.
We've already lost Anya.
I don't want to lose you too.
I want you to go. It's your last
chance. your only chance.
You have to take it. You have to
bring up the children.
You can do it. You are strong.
very strong. The strongest.
Anya.
Anya. Can you hear me?
Can you hear me?
We have to go.
Your daddy is waiting for you.
He's waiting in the barracks.
We have to go. We have to go.
You have 15 minutes left.
- Son... Go.
- Andryusha.
You have 10 minutes left.
Daddy...
Anya. You're alive. Alive.
Sasha.
My girl...
Listen. you have to go.
You can go together. Together.
- I have my duty. I can't go.
- Akimov. this is an order!
Do you hear me?!
Sasha. she won't go without you.
You hear me?
She won't go.
- Yes. Comrade Lieutenant.
- Do it.
You have 5 minutes left.
JUNE 26th. 15.58.
Having exhausted all possibilities.
the Germans dropped a 2-ton bomb
on the Brest Fortress.
Fortress calling. fortress calling.
We are engaged in fighting.
waiting. holding the defences.
for reinforcements.
Hey. Russian. smile!
Come on!
Dance! Dance. scum!
I am a Commissar.
A Communist and a Jew.
Division Commissar Fomin.
Yefim Moiseevich was shot
at the Kholmsky Gate
at the end of June 1941.
In 1957 he was awarded
the Order of Lenin.
posthumously.
This is an order.
Leave the fortress one by one.
Stay alive.
As long as you can.
Thank you. comrades.
Farewell.
Thank you and farewell.
Thank you and goodbye.
Major Gavrilov. Pyotr Mikhailovich
was captured. heavily wounded.
on the 32nd day of the war.
Like many who had been captured.
he was the victim of repression and
was expelled from the Communist party.
Only in 1957 did he receive the title
of Hero of the Soviet Union.
- Are these all who are left?
- Yes.
I escaped. comrades.
While they were taking the captives
through the forest. I escaped.
As I was making my way.
a bomb went off.
It was terrible.
I seem to have gone deaf.
Comrade Lieutenant. I can't hear a thing.
While I have strength.
I order you...
to break through the encircling ring
towards Terespol.
Nikolaev. take command.
I will stay here and cover you.
- Comrade...
- Do it. I said.
- You are wearing me out.
- Sir.
Come here.
Help me.
Keep this.
You'll make it out of the fortress.
I know you can do it.
And then...
Tell them everything that you saw here.
Tell them all the truth about us.
You hear me. bugler?
You can't hear me.
Go. Go on. Sashka.
In 1965. the commander
of the 9th Border Guard Regiment.
Lieutenant Kizhevatov.
Andrei Mitrofanovich. was awarded
the title Hero of the Soviet Union.
posthumously.
My Anya and the entire
Kizhevatov family.
along with the families of the other
defenders of the Brest Fortress.
were shot by the Germans
in the autumn of 1942.
I have kept the regimental standard
that was given to me by Kizhevatov.
as well as my memory and my faith.
I continue to believe.
as should you. that they are alive.
all those that I have told you about
and others
that I don't know so well.
They are all alive... somewhere.
And back then. I was about the same age
that you are now.